what is my opinion on open relationships
polyamory other forms of non monogamy
first of all I think casual sex is a
contradiction in terms I don't think
there's anything about sex that's casual
you tell me what's more of an
embarrassment to conservatives the
sexual politics of Donald Trump who
seems to take pride in being caught with
his pants down
especially when it's women who've had
extensive plastic surgery and have
appeared nude in what widely known
magazines or the sexual politics of
somebody like Jordan Peterson who in
some ways is more of an authentic
conservative but in other ways is more
of a laughable prude and makes your
whole movement seem out of touch with
reality in as much as any of these
people can be construed as members of
any movement I hope or topple Trump get
on the streets and protesting for our
goddamn thing in the ten years I don't
remember being a member of any movement
now that I think about it let alone a
leader of a movement yeah hmm funny that
same same with Jordan Peterson I
remember Jordan Peterson making a lot of
really lame appearances on TV on zero
anyway so look guys I'm gonna cut to a
six minute clip here a clip of Jordan
Peterson and then separately a clip
about Jordan Peterson you got to see
what his position is on this and I'm
gonna follow up my commentary in a few
he essentially says that sort of
monogamy should be enforced and
everybody needs to like you know like
men needs to be delivered sex and and so
they she was like doesn't that sort of
like contradict your sort of
non-compulsory politics and you just
make society seem to function better
that is less violently let's say when
there's one woman per man if there's
many women per man there aren't many
women for every man there are a handful
of men let's say a minority of men a
Pareto distribution of men who have a
disproportionate number of women and a
lot of men who have none and those
aren't happy man let's
that way they're men who are very likely
to get up to no good very rapidly
violent attacks are what happens when
men do not have partners mr. Peterson
says society needs to work to make sure
those men are married was it no one
who's married has ever raped anyone he
was angry at God because women were
rejecting him mr. Putin says of the
Toronto killer the cure for that is
enforced monogamy what that's why
actually why monogamy I don't even know
understand that that's not very
libertarian but wait a second he's not
talking about enforcement agha me he's
talking about enforced mating well this
is the further there's a further quote
he said but aside from interventions
that would redistribute sex mr. Peterson
is staunchly against what he calls
equality of outcomes in an effort to
equalize society he usually calls them
pathologically evil Wow
what is my opinion on open relationships
polyamory other forms of non-monogamy
well I think that as a medium to long
term strategy they're completely
untenable because human beings as far as
I'm concerned are fundamentally
pair-bonding and you know if you're just
talking about casual sex first of all I
think casual sex is a contradiction in
terms I don't think there's anything
about sex that's casual and I think that
people are deceiving themselves badly
whenever they think so they might like
to live in a you know 1970s playboy
adolescent fantasy but I don't I've
never seen that work under any
circumstances whatsoever and I think
people get hurt badly
otherwise women will only go for the
most high status men I okay but this is
that's not enforced monogamy is you
somehow must pair up with one while he's
conferring while he's conflating that
exactly he's he's he's synchronize you
would have a knock on him it would have
a knock-on effect what you don't
understand what effect he's complaining
two things first every man needs to have
sex or it's dangerous and then they need
to be married and marriage needs there
needs to be enforced monogamy that's
literally that's what he's saying okay
but he but the horsemen agha me is a
second-order issue that's whether or not
your wife is going to cheat on signals
in that please saying the
there needs to be enforced mating yeah
but he's saying like we can get there if
that's if we enforce we have society
like pressures towards monogamy because
then the like alpha males are taking up
less of the women you know that sort of
thing
oh I see so the ins regulation on the
men you can only sleep with one woman at
a time yeah it's like yeah maximum
income but for sex to sleep around
casually is to imply that sections
casual to imply that sex is casual is to
assume implicitly that it can be
divorced from the rest of life emotional
life motivational life values all of
that and you can divorce it but you pay
a big price for that I think the price
you pay is like the virtual it's well
the word psychopathic keeps leaking
leaping to mind leaking to mind yeah
good old Freud you have to reduce a
person to the casual pleasure of a
transient sexual interaction in order to
sleep around casually and I think that
once you establish that as a habit with
sex which is a deep deep experience if
you if you'll do that with sex which is
a deep experience then and you learn how
then what makes you think that won't
transfer to everything else that you do
I mean sometimes they're open people and
they're creative and they're exploratory
and all of that and fair enough but
often they're just unconscious and they
don't want to take any responsibility
and they want to live in this wish
fulfillment fantasy where everybody can
have all the sex they want all the time
and it's always wonderful and no one
gets hurt and it's like sorry that just
doesn't work in the real world
Jordan Peterson that's a bold move to be
like oh you know restrictive
redistribute of tax policies that's
Soviet on the other hand we literally
need to fix the culture in many ways
nothing far right about that god I'm not
far right have a fascist rape state
that's all what you call a fascist rape
state unbelievable contagious chameleon
what do you think the implications are I
mean the argument here though okay let's
say there are not any high status males
who are available at that time the
implication is like the women are still
going to have sex with like the Jordan
Petersons exactly the world
exactly exactly now who's laughing now
some you might think this is the easiest
sort of video for me to make as opposed
to a video that's about like the history
of the Cambodian genocide but it's
actually the most difficult for me
because it's about six different issues
at the same time I prefer to deal with
what issue in a focused manner genocide
or some other disaster or what have you
so many things
spring to mind on this first and
foremost is I think that Jordan
Peterson's whole position is built on a
misconception about what open
relationships entail when you scale them
up socially of course it's also truly as
misconception what it means for just one
person in isolation now if if the
problem being faced by in cells by
people living in involuntary celibacy if
the problem really were a scarcity of
available women which it is not I mean
patently if you just look at if you read
their own statements on the internet the
problem isn't that there are no women
you know not even in in you know Alaska
and so on to people phrase the problem
this way you know anyway sorry there are
some incredibly remote areas of the
world where you live in a mining site or
you're in the military and there were
just no women around there are some
situations you know where the gender
balance is way off but with that aside
on a social scale on a national scale
nobody not even the guys who are
struggling with in military celibacy say
that it's it's
scarcity of females but if it were just
ask yourself this this question honestly
how often do you hear about women who
have been taken off the market who are
not really available in this way because
of disability because of a drinking
habit because of alcoholism sir look I'm
from Canada I used to live in Scotland
alcoholism is that epidemic proportion
through these countries I remember a
government report oh sorry I shouldn't
say it was really like an
anti-government report was a criticism
of government policy pointing out that
the government was spending vastly more
money dealing with the AIDS crisis than
it was dealing with alcoholism but
actually in a country like Canada alkyl
ISM and even specifically fetal alcohol
syndrome these were much much larger
problems much larger concerns you see
you see that right now what are the odds
that that siren you just heard going
past the background it's alcohol-related
uh uh alcoholism drug addiction obesity
there are a lot of women who are you
know you know I see some of them on my
Jim we have some really morbidly obese
people trying to get in shape opposite
am i Jim and so on there are people
there are huge numbers of people who are
off the market in this sense due to drug
addiction even gambling major social
problems we all hear about and that
frankly you probably have relatives
you've heard about going through these
people who are not dating or not getting
married or not settling down and having
kids because of serious health problems
psychological problems and of course the
mother of all these problems the mother
of all sociological problems is poverty
right there are women who are in no
situation to date or start a family
because of poverty so these are factors
that have taken if you look at it and
route from Jordan Peters perspective if
you look at it as if the fundamental
problem is there are a lot of men trying
to settle down and get married and there
just aren't enough women for them to
compete for I think any any sincere
person in the Canadian context in the
Scottish context or and many others
would say you know these are the kind of
kinds of factors and of course if you
even just ask the women if it's the
problem that there are so many men
wanting to sell I don't think anyone
perceives the problem this way and again
even the in cells themselves the guys
who have these
websites discussing involuntary celibacy
that's not how they perceive the problem
so he's he's starting off he's not just
posing a false solution it's a false
solution to a false problem but stick
with this for a minute if you know
people in open relationships if you know
people who practice poly Emily or if you
just know people who in the parlance of
our times [ __ ] around
did they really take large numbers of
people off the open market permanently
I've lived in many condition of the
world and I mean a large number of these
countries it is completely normal for
married couples to have other partners
to sleep with people other than the
person they're married to have you heard
of far-off distant and exotic France
really French culture think about
extramarital sex in French culture have
you heard of you're at a Thailand
in China there's a lot of emphasis on
celibacy and having few sexual partners
before you get married but then once you
get married it's a much more permissive
culture there their concept of fealty in
the marriage it well it's not Christian
right in all these cultures I mean if
you think about the stereotypical French
relationship and several prime ministers
of France were in these types of
relationships you know and it's been
talked about in newspapers and
what-have-you especially by people who
aren't from France switch from outsiders
looking in and how differently the
French regard extramarital affairs from
the way Bill Clinton was regarded the
United States common topic of
conversation the the stereotypical
situation is that the the given French
man has a wife he's married to and
having kids with and then there's some
other woman on the side who he has some
kind of affair with do you really think
that other woman is off the market do
you think she stops I mean look if she
wants to get married have kids if and
not everybody does do you think she
stops looking for a man to get married
to and have kids with like permanently
really it's it's just ridiculous the
vast majority of open relationships
let's keep it all the way real here I
would encourage you and I would
encourage Jordan Peterson and I would
encourage the hosts of the majority
report show shout out to them
I'm use the clips I would encourage all
of these people to be in open
relationships at all times and the
reason for that actually is in a weird
sense is not sex it's because if you
want a relationship to last forever if
you want to have permanence and
durability in the relationship I think
you have to face up to accept and
embrace the extent to which you know the
merely biological desire for sex and
things like human curiosity is really
something very short-term and fleeting
if you go into a relationship with the
attitude either this person is has 100%
fealty to me or the minute they slip up
the minute they sleep with someone else
it's over I'm never talking you again
well you know either you're setting
yourself up for disaster as many people
do
you're setting now ground rules that
will foretell the end of the
relationship sooner or later if it's a
long enough relationship if you're
together 30 years look guys we're a
bunch of bipedal monkeys we're not
angels trapped in human form we're
really not and before proceeding further
with this lowbrow commentary I'm one of
the most important social issues of our
time let me just throw in a little piece
of jargon and say that I think Jordan
Peterson's whole worldview here is based
on a false dichotomy this happens a lot
of the time in politics people talk
about health care and they present it as
if either you have 100% coverage
universal health care or you have a
hundred percent free market coverage and
the reality is most of the real-world
examples we can look at including Canada
even including Taiwan are a really weird
mix of government control and
free-market elements universal health
care is never universal blah blah blah
but it's very easy to stand behind a
podium and present this to an audience
as if there are two and only two
mutually exclusive examples that are
diametrically opposed extremes and
that's what Jordan Peterson is doing
here at every stage the argument when he
attacks the concept of casual sex okay
so you want to pillory and insult
this terminus this point on the extreme
on the spectrum and you want to contrast
it to the
extreme of monogamous intensely
meaningful long-term high commitment sex
well you know there really is a spectrum
of health you see her at goddamnit
if this guy's actually worked as a
therapist he must have had people coming
into his practice who were in monogamous
long-term marriages and who found their
sex completely meaningless and couldn't
get along with her husband her life at
all come on the fact that you're not
gonna commit a relationship doesn't mean
you have great sex it doesn't mean you
have meaningful sex and someone his
position on it ought to know that anyway
but there's a there's a whole range of
things here and I think it's really
important to reject this kind of false
dichotomy and face up to the values that
are somewhere in the middle
what if sex doesn't have to be either a
dirty despicable disposable treatment of
one human being that one short one human
being using the other as a disposable
short-term source of gratification as I
think you know Jordan Peterson
eloquently you know insults everyone's
intelligence by saying what if it
doesn't have to either be that or the
opposite extreme what if it's possible
for you know your sex life you know with
people other than your primary partner
to be a vote is meaningful as a skiing
trip I mean what if you have
relationships with these people that are
to some extent meaningful and involve
some kind of mutual knowledge mutual
awareness mutual cooperation some common
interests some mutual respect something
you put some real effort and interest in
maybe a skiing trip wasn't the best
possible example I could have thought of
maybe I should have said something like
visiting the pyramids in Egypt when I
think of an undertaking like that it's a
significant amount of time it's a
significant amount of effort it's
something you're gonna remember for the
rest of your life even if it's shallow
even if it's disappointing I mean I
don't think going to visit the pyramids
in Egypt or when I rode my bicycle
across you know the plains of
northeastern Thailand and visited ruins
of ancient Buddhist monuments and saw
stone inscriptions you know it's shallow
the first time I saw the Mekong River it
meant a lot to me and I remember for the
rest of my life but yeah it's shallow
it's not as meaningful
as falling in love getting married and
having a baby but it's also not
something at the despicable opposite end
of the scale you can do things with your
time and energy where you pour in a
certain amount of effort preparation
imagination you get to know other people
you have meaningful connections and yes
you do remember it for the immediate
rest of your life
maybe you create friendships that last
the rest of your life too as a
consequence maybe not but the idea that
this is something fleeting that this is
a matter of treating other human beings
as disposable and you being discarded
and treated as disposable in itself I
don't think that's any more ineluctably
true for sexual relations than it is for
ski trips or making a pilgrimage to see
the pyramids in Egypt or putting your
feet in the Mekong River and feeling
that you're getting in touch with
something whether it's history art
politics some kind of meaningful
connection to the outside world honestly
I think it's a lot easier to have a
meaningful connection to another human
being than it is to have a connection to
a piece of rock or just a view of a
landscape I'm really anti skiing I've
got to tell you and one of the
differences between sex and skiing is
that skiing is way more likely to kill
you way more likely to break your ankle
way more likely to engage result in
brain damage
hashtag Sonny Bono but you know that
aside one thing that sex and skiing have
in common is that both are way more
dangerous when there's alcohol involved
I'd say also they're way more dangerous
when there's self-deception involved if
you think you're better at skiing than
you are then you take risks that you
shouldn't and this is probably true
about sex and the the human ego and in
many other ways but look fundamentally
we're a frail breed of bipedal monkey
and we're a lot better adapted for
finding ways to love each other
finding ways to build friendships and
meaningful relationships and yeah you
know what we really do have this
fundamental impulse to relate to one
another sexually and you can learn a lot
out of that you can have a lot of
meaningful relationships meaningful
relationships your life with more than
just one person especially if you're
talking with over a period of decades of
long-term relationships and it doesn't
have to be one extreme or the other
so it serves understand the next and
final point I'm making here you have to
understand that I'm rejecting both
aspects of uh professor Peterson's
reasoning I'm both rejecting the idea
that uh you know open relationships lead
to some kind of nationwide scarcity of
available women and and then secondly
I'm rejecting the idea that anything
other than marriage is dirty despicable
is one person reducing another or two to
two being a you know disposable means
for their their short-term gratification
it happens it happens but I mean you
know how difficult or easy would it be
to challenge the image of marriage
presenting do you really think there are
no marriages where people don't treat
each other terribly I mean that's that's
out there too right okay sorry um but
this is kind of like a character built
on top of a caricature so come back if I
was making before and we close on this
we're not angels who are trapped in
human form and I mean that idea it's
actually older than Christianity sorry
I've got some ancient Greek philosophy
here on the table I was reading poor
fury it's remarkable to me that
pre-christian Greek philosophy still
contains this idea that the soul is
trapped in the human body and is trying
to escape and you know the soul is just
ever so rational and virtuous but it's
dragged down to this earth by petty
desires no terrible and despicable these
desires are look if you can get a little
bit comfortable with the fact that flesh
and blood skin and bones is all we've
got that you know we are you know after
all you know biological entities we're
not only biological entities we can
aspire to do all kinds of wonderful
altruistic and creative things are their
lives in our time but that is that is
what we're made of and that's not a
fleshie prison we're trying to escape
that's the only vehicle we've got to
take us through this life and when that
vehicle breaks down and stops running
that's the end of it for all of us if we
can embrace embrace our own limitations
and mortality I think we can at the same
time appreciate that you know human
curiosity and convey
reality and warmth and love and respect
and friendship these are things
naturally bundled up with sexual
instincts probably if you have a
co-worker of the opposite sex that you
admire in all these ways there's
probably a little bit of that sexual
attraction bundled up in there and
that's not necessarily an evil and
despicable thing you have to repress and
it's expurgate and again Jordan Peterson
this is his field feeling so many ways
created by Sigmund Freud Esai give a
shout out to you'd think if anyone on
earth were comfortable with the
contradictions we all have to live with
in taking you know a medieval set of
moral and moral expectations a medieval
set of social institutions and dragging
them into the modern era and reconciling
them with our awareness of who we are
biologically and maybe who we aspire to
be philosophically maybe we want to be
something more than just a hairless
bipedal ape maybe wanna do something
better guys you know more is possible
than this don't be a prisoner of this
kind of ridiculous reductionistic civil
joystick pardon me ridiculous
reductionistic syllogistic reasoning
that presents you with only these two
diametrically opposed opposites one of
which is pure and one of which it is
impure you can be warm and accepting and
loving of your primary partner and you
can maybe recognize especially if they
haven't already been with a thousand
partners before they go with you it's
they're not already just burnt out on
human sexuality and have no more
curiosity or capacity to to get with
others you know you can set aside those
feelings of possession and jealousy and
control and revenge and you're actually
not harming your primary partner you're
not harming others you're definitely not
depriving the Jordan peer systems of
this world
you're not taking anyone off the market
at the end of the day the free market we
all have to deal with is the free market
of ideas it's trying to find other
people who find the same things
meaningful that we find meaningful
finding ways to share our lives with
them and yeah tbh sex is part of that
ant ant ant ant
[Music]